README.md, before:

# KSVotes.org

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/BlueprintKansas/ksvotes.org.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/BlueprintKansas/ksvotes.org)

The ksvotes.org site makes Kansas online voting registration easy.

## Table of Contents
* [Database Setup](#database-setup)
* [Setup & Installation](#setup-&-installation)
    * [Environmental Variables](#environmental-variables)
    * [Migrate Database](#migrate-database)
    * [Run the application](#run-the-application)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Styling](styling)
* [Internationalization & Localization](#internationalization-&-localization)

### Database Setup
  For Mac installations I like [PostgresApp](https://postgresapp.com/)

  [DB setup reference](https://medium.com/coding-blocks/creating-user-database-and-adding-access-on-postgresql-8bfcd2f4a91e)

  Create databases for development and testing. In the [Environmental Variables](#environmental-variables) section below we assume the names you picked were `ksvotes_dev` and `ksvotes_test`.


## Setup & Installation
  Recommendations for running after cloning:

  Install [Python 3.6+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

  Install [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/#description)

  Install [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/)

  In app root directory setup your virtualenv and install dependencies to your virtualenv python.

  ```
  $ virtualenv venv -p python3
  $ . venv/bin/activate
  $(venv) make deps
  $(venv) make locales
  ```

### Environmental Variables
  Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following variables.
  Note that the commented-out (`#`-prefixed) variables are optional.

  ```
  DATABASE_URL=postgres://localhost/ksvotes_dev
  TESTING_DATABASE_URL=postgres://localhost/ksvotes_test
  SECRET_KEY={{generate a secret key}}
  APP_CONFIG=development
  CRYPT_KEY={{generate a secret key | base64}}

  # If running a local NVRIS instance, e.g. http://localhost:4500
  NVRIS_URL={{https://full-url-to-nvris-instance-no-trailing-slash.com}}

  # Set this to enable the /demo endpoint
  DEMO_UUID={{generate a UUID and run "make load-demo"}}

  # You can grab one from the URL below or take the one from the staging configuration
  USPS_USER_ID={{key from https://registration.shippingapis.com/}}

  #########################
  # OPTIONAL ENV VARS
  #########################

  # LOG_LEVEL=INFO
  # GA_KEY={{google analytics key}}
  # RECAPTCHA_KEY={{public key}}
  # RECAPTCHA_SECRET={{private key}}
  # AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={{from role with at least rds access}}
  # AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={{from role with at least rds access}}
  # AWS_DEFAULT_REGION={{us-east-1 || or your region where RDS is hosted}}
  # SES_ACCESS_KEY_ID={{from role with ses access}}
  # SES_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={{from role with ses access}}

  # TEST_CLERK_EMAIL={{override the Clerk.email value for the TEST County}}
  # EMAIL_FROM={{override the From email header in all email}}
  # EMAIL_PREFIX={{prefix all Subject lines with a string}}

  # Default is not to send actual email unless SEND_EMAIL is set
  # SEND_EMAIL=true

  # Number of minutes before idle session expires. Default is 10.
  # SESSION_TTL=10

  # You want the default VV URL unless you are testing error checking.
  # VOTER_VIEW_URL=https://myvoteinfo.voteks.org/VoterView/RegistrantSearch.do


  # The number of days prior to the Primary election when the Advance Ballot
  # option for the Primary disappears.
  # AB_DAYS_BEFORE_PRIMARY=7

  # Turn the AB flow on. Default is off.
  # ENABLE_AB=true

  # Turn off HTTPS requirement. Probably set this to true in your local dev.
  # SSL_DISABLE=true

  # Turn on lots of SQL debugging.
  # SQL_DEBUG=true

  # Include the top banner on every page that this is not the live production site.
  # STAGE_BANNER=true
  ```

### Crypt Key

  The encryption key is kind of particular, it needs to be 32 bytes long and URl-safe base64 encoded.  Use this command to generate one for you using the cryptography library: 

  ```
  $(venv) make crypt-key
  ```

### Demo uuid

  We need `DEMO_UUID` set to a UUID, use this to generate one for you quickly:

  ```
  $(venv) make demo-uuid
  ```

### Validate your configuration

  You can check that your local env has all of the requried environment variables set by running:

  ```
  ($venv) make check
  ```

### Migrate Database
  Once setup is complete let's get our models imported into our development database.

  ```
  $(venv) make dbupgrade
  ```

When you modify the model classes and want to apply to the schema:

  ```
  $(venv) make update
  ```

### Run the Application

Let's get up and running.
```
$(venv) make run
```

Navigate to [localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)


## Tests

**NOTE**: You need a local instance [NVRIS](https://github.com/BlueprintKansas/NVRIS) or use the NVRIS URL from staging for the tests to pass


To run all tests:
```
$(venv) make test
```

To run all tests with coverage:
```
$(venv) make testcov
```


## Styling
Code is currently setup to SCSS with node scripts to compile.

Edit `scss/source.scss` and compile with `% make css`.

Alternatively you can create your own .css style sheet in *app/static/css* and replace
```
<link href="{{url_for('static', filename='css/compiled.css')}}" rel="stylesheet">
```
in *app/templates/base.html* with
```
<link href="{{url_for('static', filename='css/[[[name of your style sheet]]]')}}" rel="stylesheet">
```

To setup scss watcher in root directory run:
```
$ npm install
```
```
$ npm run watch
```

## Internationalization & Localization
This application is using [Flask-Babel](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/)

To add a new string, reference the string in the .py code with `gettext()` or `lazy_gettext()`
and then run `% make locales` to update the corresponding babel files. For example:

```
# in foo.py
lazy_gettext('some_key_string')

# add 'some_key_string' to translations.json
% vi translations.json

# Then in your terminal
# update the translation files
% make locales
```

Commit message:

Disable VIT widget unless ENABLE_VOTING_LOCATION is true (#453)
* Disable VIT widget

* Add ENABLE_VOTING_LOCATION to control VIT JS widget

Co-authored-by: Kate Davis <30677505+katherinepdavis@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# KSVotes.org

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/BlueprintKansas/ksvotes.org.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/BlueprintKansas/ksvotes.org)

The ksvotes.org site makes Kansas online voting registration easy.

## Table of Contents
* [Database Setup](#database-setup)
* [Setup & Installation](#setup-&-installation)
    * [Environmental Variables](#environmental-variables)
    * [Migrate Database](#migrate-database)
    * [Run the application](#run-the-application)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Styling](styling)
* [Internationalization & Localization](#internationalization-&-localization)

### Database Setup
  For Mac installations I like [PostgresApp](https://postgresapp.com/)

  [DB setup reference](https://medium.com/coding-blocks/creating-user-database-and-adding-access-on-postgresql-8bfcd2f4a91e)

  Create databases for development and testing. In the [Environmental Variables](#environmental-variables) section below we assume the names you picked were `ksvotes_dev` and `ksvotes_test`.


## Setup & Installation
  Recommendations for running after cloning:

  Install [Python 3.6+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

  Install [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/#description)

  Install [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/)

  In app root directory setup your virtualenv and install dependencies to your virtualenv python.

  ```
  $ virtualenv venv -p python3
  $ . venv/bin/activate
  $(venv) make deps
  $(venv) make locales
  ```

### Environmental Variables
  Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following variables.
  Note that the commented-out (`#`-prefixed) variables are optional.

  ```
  DATABASE_URL=postgres://localhost/ksvotes_dev
  TESTING_DATABASE_URL=postgres://localhost/ksvotes_test
  SECRET_KEY={{generate a secret key}}
  APP_CONFIG=development
  CRYPT_KEY={{generate a secret key | base64}}

  # If running a local NVRIS instance, e.g. http://localhost:4500
  NVRIS_URL={{https://full-url-to-nvris-instance-no-trailing-slash.com}}

  # Set this to enable the /demo endpoint
  DEMO_UUID={{generate a UUID and run "make load-demo"}}

  # You can grab one from the URL below or take the one from the staging configuration
  USPS_USER_ID={{key from https://registration.shippingapis.com/}}

  #########################
  # OPTIONAL ENV VARS
  #########################

  # LOG_LEVEL=INFO
  # GA_KEY={{google analytics key}}
  # RECAPTCHA_KEY={{public key}}
  # RECAPTCHA_SECRET={{private key}}
  # AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={{from role with at least rds access}}
  # AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={{from role with at least rds access}}
  # AWS_DEFAULT_REGION={{us-east-1 || or your region where RDS is hosted}}
  # SES_ACCESS_KEY_ID={{from role with ses access}}
  # SES_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={{from role with ses access}}

  # TEST_CLERK_EMAIL={{override the Clerk.email value for the TEST County}}
  # EMAIL_FROM={{override the From email header in all email}}
  # EMAIL_PREFIX={{prefix all Subject lines with a string}}

  # Default is not to send actual email unless SEND_EMAIL is set
  # SEND_EMAIL=true

  # Number of minutes before idle session expires. Default is 10.
  # SESSION_TTL=10

  # You want the default VV URL unless you are testing error checking.
  # VOTER_VIEW_URL=https://myvoteinfo.voteks.org/VoterView/RegistrantSearch.do


  # The number of days prior to the Primary election when the Advance Ballot
  # option for the Primary disappears.
  # AB_DAYS_BEFORE_PRIMARY=7

  # Turn the AB flow on. Default is off.
  # ENABLE_AB=true

  # Turn VIT voting location JS widget on. Default is off.
  # ENABLE_VOTING_LOCATION=true

  # Turn off HTTPS requirement. Probably set this to true in your local dev.
  # SSL_DISABLE=true

  # Turn on lots of SQL debugging.
  # SQL_DEBUG=true

  # Include the top banner on every page that this is not the live production site.
  # STAGE_BANNER=true
  ```

### Crypt Key

  The encryption key is kind of particular, it needs to be 32 bytes long and URl-safe base64 encoded.  Use this command to generate one for you using the cryptography library: 

  ```
  $(venv) make crypt-key
  ```

### Demo uuid

  We need `DEMO_UUID` set to a UUID, use this to generate one for you quickly:

  ```
  $(venv) make demo-uuid
  ```

### Validate your configuration

  You can check that your local env has all of the requried environment variables set by running:

  ```
  ($venv) make check
  ```

### Migrate Database
  Once setup is complete let's get our models imported into our development database.

  ```
  $(venv) make dbupgrade
  ```

When you modify the model classes and want to apply to the schema:

  ```
  $(venv) make update
  ```

### Run the Application

Let's get up and running.
```
$(venv) make run
```

Navigate to [localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)


## Tests

**NOTE**: You need a local instance [NVRIS](https://github.com/BlueprintKansas/NVRIS) or use the NVRIS URL from staging for the tests to pass


To run all tests:
```
$(venv) make test
```

To run all tests with coverage:
```
$(venv) make testcov
```


## Styling
Code is currently setup to SCSS with node scripts to compile.

Edit `scss/source.scss` and compile with `% make css`.

Alternatively you can create your own .css style sheet in *app/static/css* and replace
```
<link href="{{url_for('static', filename='css/compiled.css')}}" rel="stylesheet">
```
in *app/templates/base.html* with
```
<link href="{{url_for('static', filename='css/[[[name of your style sheet]]]')}}" rel="stylesheet">
```

To setup scss watcher in root directory run:
```
$ npm install
```
```
$ npm run watch
```

## Internationalization & Localization
This application is using [Flask-Babel](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/)

To add a new string, reference the string in the .py code with `gettext()` or `lazy_gettext()`
and then run `% make locales` to update the corresponding babel files. For example:

```
# in foo.py
lazy_gettext('some_key_string')

# add 'some_key_string' to translations.json
% vi translations.json

# Then in your terminal
# update the translation files
% make locales
```
